
Whats new in V6.0?

1) A new early sacrifice bonus is introduced. If a sacrifice happens early in the game, the engine gets EAS-points:
(percent x 100 / 18)*(percent x 100 / 18). Early sac limit is: Average length of all wins in a database / 2.
percent means here: percents of early sacs in the pool of all found sacs of one engine. So, theoretically,
values of 0% or 100% can happen (but are very unlikely).

2) The early sac bonus made a complete overhaul of the scoring-system necessary. So, from V6.0 the EAS-scores are
very diffferent (higher) from scores, calculated by older version of the EAS-Tool. So, do never compare results of
differente EAS-Tool versions!

3) The short-wins move-limit for EAS-points is (after calculating it) no longer rounded to 5 or 10. This increases 
the accuracy.

4) A 3rd EAS-Ratinglist was added to the statistics file: Here just the EAS-points are listed, no percent values.
This can be helpful for engine-developers, because it allows easier optimizations of single EAS-stats in engine-play.

5) The EAS-Tool now builds just 2 pgn-output databases: interesting_wins.pgn and errorgames.pgn

errorgames.pgn contains games with a Termination-Tag that suggests a non-regular game ending.
("anbandoned" for example). These games are sorted out before building the EAS-score, so these games
will not lead to distorted results.

interesting_wins.pgn contains: 
1) Queen Sacrifices, followed by
2) 5+ PawnUnit Sacrifices, followed by
3) 4 PawnUnit Sacrifices, followed by
4) 3 PawnUnit Sacrifices, followed by
5) 2 PawnUnit Sacrifices, followed by
6) 1 PawnUnit Sacrifices, followed by
7) Very short games, followed by
8) Games, ended before endgame (material) was reached, followed by
9) Games with material imbalance (Rook vs. Bishop and 2 pawns for example)

The games in the output-files are sorted in 2 ways:
First: The games are sorted by categories (category 1 is followed by category 2, 3, ... etc.).
Second: In each category, the games are sorted by length (0-19 moves, followed by 20-24 moves, followed by
35-29 moves... and so on, up to 120 moves and beyond). So, in each category, the shortest wins are at the
beginning and followed by the longer wins...

And, there are no double games in one output-file: If a game fits more than one category, it is stored
in the lowest category, all other apperances of this game in higher categories are deleted.
For example: A game contains a 3 PawnUnit-Sacrifice and is won before the endgame material is reached:
This game is stored in category 4 (= 3 PawnUnit Sacrifices) and not in category 8...

And each games gets a new Annotator-Tag, so it is clear, which category the game belongs to.
One of these 8 tags is added to each game-notation:

[Annotator "EAS-Tool: Queen Sacrifice found in this game"]
[Annotator "EAS-Tool: 5+ PawnUnits Sacrifice found in this game"]
[Annotator "EAS-Tool: 4 PawnUnits Sacrifice found in this game"]
[Annotator "EAS-Tool: 3 PawnUnits Sacrifice found in this game"]
[Annotator "EAS-Tool: 2 PawnUnits Sacrifice found in this game"]
[Annotator "EAS-Tool: 1 PawnUnit Sacrifice found in this game"]
[Annotator "EAS-Tool: Game was very short"]
[Annotator "EAS-Tool: Game ended before endgame (material)"]
[Annotator "EAS-Tool: Material imbalance found in this game"]
